---
layout: page
title: Applied Macroeconomics
description: ECON 6120 • Summer 2023 • Saint Louis University
img: /assets/img/model-3.jpg
importance: 2
category: Graduate
---

This course takes an intermediate level approach to macroeconomic theory and its applications, building on the foundations developed in the principles of economics. It will provide analytical tools and formal models to explain the behavior of output, inflation, employment, interest rates, exchange rates, and other aggregate economic quantities. This set of tools is used to understand current economic issues, forecast the behavior of the economy, and assess the impact of policy choices. This course is meant to train students to think in a structured, analytically rigorous way about macroeconomic questions. This training will allow students to use macroeconomics as an analytical tool rather than a set of assorted theories. Finally, it will help prepare students entering graduate education or starting careers in management, finance, or economic policy-making.

<div class="publications">
  <h2 class="topic">Class Information</h2>
</div>
* [Fall 2022 Syllabus](/assets/e3120/E3120syllabus.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* **Location:** Davis-Shaughnessy Hall 273 :mask: <!-- https://emojipedia.org/ -->
* **Time:** TR 11:00am-12:15pm (Sec. 03), 2:15pm-3:30pm (Sec. 04)
* **Office hours:** TR 1:00pm-2:00pm & by appointment
* **Econ Hub:** [discord.gg/SsrNPEeP2P](https://discord.gg/SsrNPEeP2P){:target="\_blank"}
* **Zoom link:** [slu.zoom.us/my/econdojo](https://slu.zoom.us/my/econdojo){:target="\_blank"}

<div class="publications">
  <h2 class="topic">Introduction to Macroeconomimcs</h2>
</div>
* [Lecture 1: Economics: Foundations and Models](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides1.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 2: GDP: Measuring Total Production and Income](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides2.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 3: Unemployment and Inflation](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides3.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 4: Economic Growth, Financial System, and Business Cycles](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides4.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 5: The Facts of Growth](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides5.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 6: Aggregate Expenditure and Output in the Short Run](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides6.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 7: Money, Banks, and Federal Reserve System](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides7.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 8: Goods and Financial Markets: The IS-LM Model](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides8.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 9: Aggregate Demand and Aggregate Supply Analysis](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides9.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 10: Monetary Policy](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides10.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 11: Fiscal Policy](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides11.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 12: Inflation, Unemployment, and Federal Reserve Policy](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides12.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Lecture 13: Macroeconomics in Open Economy](/assets/e3120/E3120Slides13.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [Principles for Navigating Big Debt Crises](/assets/e3120/principles-for-navigating-big-debt-crises-by-ray-dalio.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
* [A List of Useful Equations](/assets/e3120/Equations.pdf){:target="\_blank"}
